Issue/392 document config private python package repo (#6194)
inmanta/inmanta-core: docs/reference/projectyml.rst

      index_urls:
        - https://pypi.org/simple/

.. _specify_location_pip:

> Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed

Reviewer: This section needs a lot more details and structure if we want to make sure that it's clear to the end user. Or we can also drop it for now and create a ticket for this, because it's technically outside of the scope of this ticket.

* We should split this in sub-sections for each of the different alternatives with a section above these three sub-section that gives an short overview of the three different approaches.
* We should include snippets when we refer to setting a specific config option.

Author: I will add it now.

> Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> By setting ``use_config_file`` option to ``True``, the project will use the global pip config file when installing V2 modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By setting the ``use_config_file`` option of the ``pip`` section to ``True``, the project will use the global pip config file when installing V2 modules.
```

To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file:

.. code-block:: text

  [global]
  timeout = 60
  index-url = <url of the repository >

.. note::

    You can also create a new pip config file ``pip.conf``, add the content there and then set the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable to the path of the newly created ``pip.conf`` file (See: :ref:`env_vars`).

> Another option is to use the  ``index_urls`` option. There you can directly add the urls of repositories you are interested in.

Reviewer: We should make it clear that the `index_urls` config option is a config option of the project.yml file. Maybe also refer to it as `pip.index_urls`, because index_urls is a sub-config option of the pip section.

> Another option is to use the  ``index_urls`` option. There you can directly add the urls of repositories you are interested in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another option is to set the urls of the repositories in the ``index_urls`` option of the ``pip`` section.
```

.. note::

>     Both methods can also be used together.

Reviewer: If we mention this, we should also mention what the behavior is if you do this. Namely, which one takes precedence.

Author: you mention in your previous 3 options, this is the third one right?

Reviewer: I was thinking: 1) global pip config, 2) specific custom pip config, 3) index urls in project.yml file. But that's a detail. The most important part is that the different options are clearly structured.

      index_urls:
        - https://pypi.org/simple/

.. _specify_location_pip:

Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed
---------------------------------------------------------
This section explains how to configure your project in order to download v2 modules from any python package repository.
By default, a project created using the :ref:`project-creation-guide` is configured to install packages from ``https://pypi.org/simple/``. There are multiple ways
to change this behaviour.

Using pip config file
"""""""""""""""""""""

By setting the ``use_config_file`` option of the pip section to ``True``, the project will use the pip config files.

.. code-block:: yaml

    pip:
      use_config_file: True

> To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file:

Reviewer 3: If you show the content of the file, shouldn't you also specify the path to that file? I know there is a link to the full doc below.  But as a user, I think I would be a bit frustrated to see the simple step that needs to be done in here, and actually have to click one more link and search through a different doc to find the place where that change needs to be applied.

Author: do you mean the location of the pip config file? because if I understand correctly it could be located at multiple places.

Reviewer 3: That is what I meant yes, I ever used it so I don't know how it works.  Which also means that I wouldn't know what to do for this step.

Reviewer 3: I guess there is a user level pip config file? Maybe you can advice to edit this one?

Author: Ok i'll do that :)

> To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file located at ``$HOME/.config/pip/pip.conf``:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file of the ``inmanta`` user, located at ``/var/lib/inmanta/.config/pip/pip.conf``:
```

      index_urls:
        - https://pypi.org/simple/

.. _specify_location_pip:

Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed
---------------------------------------------------------
This section explains how to configure your project in order to download v2 modules from any python package repository.
By default, the project is configured to install packages from ``https://pypi.org/simple/``. There are multiple ways

> to change this behaviour.

Author: what I meant is that in the template of a project it is configured with ``https://pypi.org/simple/`` as the default.

> Using the global pip config file

Reviewer: The global config file is just one type of pip config file, there are multiple of them (https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/configuration/#configuration-files)
```suggestion
Using pip config file at a standard location
```

""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> By setting the ``use_config_file`` option of the pip section to ``True``, the project will use the global pip config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting the ``use_config_file`` option of the pip section to ``True``, the project will use the pip config files.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    pip:
      use_config_file: True

To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file:

.. code-block:: text

  [global]
  timeout = 60
  index-url = <url of a python package repository>
  extra-index-url = <url of a second python package repository>
                    <url of a third python package repository>

> Creating a new pip config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a pip config file at a custom location
```

""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Alternatively, a new ``pip.conf`` can be created and the ``index-url`` can be specified there as explained in the previous section.
> To make this work, the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable needs to be set to the path of the newly created ``pip.conf`` file (See: :ref:`env_vars`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a pip config file can be used at a custom location.
The ``index-url`` can be specified in this file as explained in the previous section.
To make this work, the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable needs to be set to the path of the newly created file (See: :ref:`env_vars`).
```

> Specify the locations in the project.yml file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the index-urls in the project.yml file
```

"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Another option is to use the  ``index_urls`` option in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    pip:
      use_config_file: False
      index_urls:
        - <url of a python package repository>
        - <url of a second python package repository>

.. note::
    The pip config file can also be used in combination with ``index-urls`` specified in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file:

    * If the pip config is used (by setting ``use_config_file`` to ``True``), the ``index-url`` specified in the pip config file will take precedence and the ``index-urls`` specified in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file will be used as ``extra-index-urls`` when installing with pip.

>     * If the pip config is not used (by setting ``use_config_file`` to False), then the first ``index_url`` specified in the project.yml will be used as an ``index_url`` and all the following ones will be used as ``extra-index-urls`` when installing with pip.

Reviewer: For consistency with the previous bullet point.

```suggestion
    * If the pip config is not used (by setting ``use_config_file`` to ``False``), then the first ``index_url`` specified in the project.yml will be used as an ``index_url`` and all the following ones will be used as ``extra-index-urls`` when installing with pip.
```

      index_urls:
        - https://pypi.org/simple/

.. _specify_location_pip:

Specify locations from where V2 modules will be installed
---------------------------------------------------------
This section explains how to configure your project in order to download v2 modules from any python package repository.
By default, a project created using the :ref:`project-creation-guide` is configured to install packages from ``https://pypi.org/simple/``. There are multiple ways
to change this behaviour.

> Using pip config file at a standard location
> """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Reviewer: Do you make sure that the length of the title and the length of the title marker match. At the moment we get many ugly warnings regarding this in the compile log.
```suggestion
Using pip config file at a standard location
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
```

By setting the ``use_config_file`` option of the pip section to ``True``, the project will use the pip config files.

.. code-block:: yaml

    pip:
      use_config_file: True

To specify the url of a pip repository, add the following to the pip config file:

.. code-block:: text

  [global]
  timeout = 60
  index-url = <url of a python package repository>
  extra-index-url = <url of a second python package repository>

>                     <url of a third python package repository>

Reviewer 4: I would drop the extra index urls because we strongly discourage it, I would not give the impression this is a typical approach

Creating a pip config file at a custom location
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Alternatively, a pip config file can be used at a custom location.
The ``index-url`` can be specified in this file as explained in the previous section.

> To make this work, the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable needs to be set to the path of the newly created file (See: :ref:`env_vars`).

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't it be easier to just refer to the appropriate page on the pip documentation?

Author: I added the link to the docs but I didn't remove anything. I find it relevant to refer to our env_vars doc as I didn't now how to set them when I did the testing.

Specify the index-urls in the project.yml file
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Another option is to use the  ``index_urls`` option in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    pip:
      use_config_file: False
      index_urls:
        - <url of a python package repository>

>         - <url of a second python package repository>

Reviewer 4: Same here

Author: what do you mean here? I mean we still want to tell the user that he can provide multiple urls in the project.yml file right? otherwise I don't like that we called the variable 'urls' and not 'url'

Reviewer 4: I mean, it's a list so any user who cares to have more than one will see it, but I am strongly opposed to advertising it any more than we need to. As far as our examples go, I'm of the opinion they should all use a single-element list here. If you (or one of the reviewers) disagree(s) you can raise it in the planning meeting tomorrow and we can figure out what we want there.

Author: Ok I see what you mean

.. note::
    The pip config file can also be used in combination with ``index-urls`` specified in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file:

>     * If the pip config is used (by setting ``use_config_file`` to ``True``), the ``index-url`` specified in the pip config file will take precedence and the ``index-urls`` specified in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file will be used as ``extra-index-urls`` when installing with pip.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * If the pip config is used (by setting ``use_config_file`` to ``true``), the ``index-url`` specified in the pip config file will take precedence and the ``index-urls`` specified in the ``pip`` section of the ``project.yml`` file will be used as ``extra-index-urls`` when installing with pip.
```
